Version 1
Tichu Nanjing (for four players)

The Cards

There are four suits (Jack, Sword, Pagoda, Star) of 13 cards each corresponding in value to Bridge cards ie. The highest card in each suit being the Ace and the lowest being the "2". The "10's" lie between the "9" and the "Jack".

There are four special cards : Mah Jong, Dog, Phoenix and Dragon (see illustration in German rules) - which brings the total number of cards to 56.

The players play in two teams each of two players. Each player sits opposite his partner and they work together in acquiring points.

Preparation

The winner of the previous round shuffles and cuts the deck.

Instead of dealing out the cards, each player in turn takes a card from the top of the deck until the pile is exhausted and each player has 14 cards in his hand. Editor's note: We just deal the cards normally by first dealing 8 cards to each player and later giving each player 6 more (the reason for the two phases of dealing is below).
As serious as a heart attack. Maybe those were Ken Kramer's last words, like a final explosion of panic in his mind as he stopped breathing and dropped into the abyss. He was out of line, in every way there was, and he knew it. He was where he shouldn't have been, with someone he shouldn't have been with, carrying something he should have kept in a safer place. But he was getting away with it. He was playing and winning. He was on top of his game. He was probably smiling. Until the sudden thump deep inside his chest betrayed him. Then everything turned around. Success became instant catastrophe. He had no time to put anything right.

Nobody knows what a fatal heart attack feels like. There are no survivors to tell us. Medics talk about necrosis, and clots, and oxygen starvation, and occluded blood vessels. They predict rapid useless cardiac fluttering, or else nothing at all. They use words like infarction and fibrillation, but those terms mean nothing to us. You just drop dead is what they should say. Ken Kramer certainly did. He just dropped dead, and he took his secrets with him, and the trouble he left behind nearly killed me too.
I was alone in a borrowed office. There was a clock on the wall. It had no second hand. Just an hour hand, and a minute hand. It was electric. It didn't tick. It was completely silent, like the room. I was watching the minute hand, intently. It wasn't moving.

I waited.

It moved. It jumped ahead six degrees. Its motion was mechanical and damped and precise. It bounced once and quivered a little and came to rest.

A minute.

One down, one to go.

Sixty more seconds.

I kept on watching. The clock stayed still for a long, long time. Then the hand jumped again. Another six degrees, another minute, straight-up midnight, and 1989 was 1990.

I pushed my chair back and stood up behind the desk. The phone rang. I figured it was someone calling to wish me a happy new year. But it wasn't. It was a civilian cop calling because he had a dead soldier in a motel thirty miles off-post.

"I need the Military Police duty officer," he said.

I sat down again, behind the desk.

"You got him," I said.

"We've got one of yours, dead."

"One of mine?"

"A soldier," he said.

"Where?"

"Motel, in town."

"Dead how?" I asked.

"Heart attack, most likely," the guy said.

I paused. Turned the page on the army-issue calendar on the desk, from December 31st to January 1st.

"Nothing suspicious?" I said.

"Don't see anything."

"You seen heart attacks before?"

"Lots of them."

"OK," I said. "Call post headquarters."

I gave him the number.

"Happy New Year," I said.

"You don't need to come out?" he said.

"No," I said. I put the phone down. I didn't need to go out. The army is a big institution, a little bigger than Detroit, a little smaller than Dallas, and just as unsentimental as either place. Current active strength is 930,000 men and women, and they are as representative of the general American population as you can get. Death rate in America is around 865 people per 100,000 population per year, and in the absence of sustained combat soldiers don't die any faster or slower than regular people. On the whole they are younger and fitter than the population at large, but they smoke more and drink more and eat worse and stress harder and do all kinds of dangerous things in training. So their life expectancy comes out about average. Soldiers die at the same speed as everyone else. Do the math with the death rate versus current strength, and you have twenty-two dead soldiers every single day of every single year, accidents, suicides, heart disease, cancer, stroke, lung disease, liver failure, kidney failure. Like dead citizens in Detroit, or Dallas. So I didn't need to go out. I'm a cop, not a mortician.

The clock moved. The hand jumped and bounced and settled. Three minutes past midnight. The phone rang again. It was someone calling to wish me a happy new year. It was the sergeant in the office outside of mine.

"Happy New Year," she said to me.

"You too," I said. "You couldn't stand up and put your head in the door?"

"You couldn't put yours out the door?"

"I was on the phone."

"Who was it?"

"Nobody," I said. "Just some grunt didn't make it to the new decade."

"You want coffee?"

"Sure," I said. "Why not?"

I put the phone down again. At that point I had been in more than six years, and army coffee was one of the things that made me happy to stay in. It was the best in the world, no question. So were the sergeants. This one was a mountain woman from north Georgia. I had known her two days. She lived off-post in a trailer park somewhere in the North Carolina Badlands. She had a baby son. She had told me all about him. I had heard nothing about a husband. She was all bone and sinew and she was as hard as woodpecker lips, but she liked me. I could tell, because she brought me coffee. They don't like you, they don't bring you coffee. They knife you in the back instead. My door opened and she came in, carrying two mugs, one for her and one for me.

"Happy New Year," I said to her.

She put the coffee down on my desk, both mugs.

"Will it be?" she said.

"Don't see why not," I said.

"The Berlin Wall is halfway down. They showed it on the television. They were having a big party over there."

"I'm glad someone was, somewhere."

"Lots of people. Big crowds. All singing and dancing."

"I didn't see the news."

"This all was six hours ago. The time difference."

"They're probably still at it."

"They had sledgehammers."

"They're allowed. Their half is a free city. We spent forty-five years keeping it that way."

"Pretty soon we won't have an enemy anymore."

I tried the coffee. Hot, black, the best in the world.

"We won," I said. "Isn't that supposed to be a good thing?"

"Not if you depend on Uncle Sam's paycheck."

She was dressed like me in standard woodland camouflage battledress uniform. Her sleeves were neatly rolled. Her MP brassard was exactly horizontal. I figured she had it safety-pinned in back where nobody could see. Her boots were gleaming.

"You got any desert camos?" I asked her.

"Never been to the desert," she said.

"They changed the pattern. They put big brown splotches on it. Five years' research. Infantry guys are calling it chocolate chip. It's not a good pattern. They'll have to change it back. But it'll take them another five years to figure that out."

"So?"

"If it takes them five years to revise a camo pattern, your kid will be through college before they figure out force reduction. So don't worry about it."

"OK," she said, not believing me. "You think he's good for college?"

"I never met him."

She said nothing.

"The army hates change," I said. "And we'll always have enemies."

She said nothing. My phone rang again. She leaned forward and answered it for me. Listened for about eleven seconds and handed me the receiver.

"Colonel Garber, sir," she said. "He's in D.C."

She took her mug and left the room. Colonel Garber was ultimately my boss, and although he was a pleasant human being it was unlikely he was calling eight minutes into New Year's Day simply to be social. That wasn't his style. Some brass does that stuff. They come over all cheery on the big holidays, like they're really just one of the boys. But Leon Garber wouldn't have dreamed of trying that, with anyone, and least of all with me. Even if he had known I was going to be there.

"Reacher here," I said.

There was a long pause.

"I thought you were in Panama," Leon Garber said.

"I got orders," I said.

"From Panama to Fort Bird? Why?"

"Not my place to ask."

"When was this?"

"Two days ago."

"That's a kick in the teeth," he said. "Isn't it?"

"Is it?"

"Panama was probably more exciting."

"It was OK," I said.

"And they got you working duty officer on New Year's Eve already?"

"I volunteered," I said. "I'm trying to make people like me."

"That's a hopeless task," he said.

"A sergeant just brought me coffee."

There was another pause. "Someone just call you about a dead soldier in a motel?" he asked.

"Eight minutes ago," I said. "I shuffled it off to headquarters."

"And they shuffled it off to someone else and I just got pulled out of a party to hear all about it."

"Why?"

"Because the dead soldier in question is a two-star general."

The phone went quiet.

"I didn't think to ask," I said.

The phone stayed quiet.

"Generals are mortal," I said. "Same as anyone else."

No reply.

"There was nothing suspicious," I said. "He croaked, is all. Heart attack. Probably had gout. I didn't see a reason to get excited."

"It's a question of dignity," Garber said. "We can't leave a two-star lying around belly-up in public without reacting. We need a presence."

"And that would be me?"

"I'd prefer someone else. But you're probably the highest-ranking sober MP in the world tonight. So yes, it would be you."

"It'll take me an hour to get there."

"He's not going anywhere. He's dead. And they haven't found a sober medical examiner yet."

"OK," I said.

"Be respectful," Garber said.

"OK," I said again.

"And be polite. Off-post, we're in their hands. It's a civilian jurisdiction."

"I'm familiar with civilians. I met one, once."

"But control the situation," he said. "You know, if it needs controlling."

"He probably died in bed," I said. "Like people do."

"Call me," he said. "If you need to."

"Was it a good party?"

"Excellent. My daughter is visiting."

He clicked off and I called the civilian dispatcher back and got the name and the address of the motel. Then I left my coffee on my desk and told my sergeant what was up and headed back to my quarters to change. I figured a presence required Class A greens, not woodland-pattern BDUs.



I took a Humvee from the MP motor pool and was logged out through the main gate. I found the motel inside fifty minutes. It was thirty miles due north of Fort Bird through dark undistinguished North Carolina countryside that was equal parts strip malls and scrubby forest and what I figured were dormant sweet potato fields. It was all new to me. I had never served there before. The roads were very quiet. Everyone was still inside, partying. I hoped I would be back at Bird before they all came out and started driving home. Although I really liked the Humvee's chances, head-on against a civilian ride.

The motel was part of a knot of low commercial structures clustered in the darkness near a big highway interchange. There was a truck stop as a centerpiece. It had a greasy spoon that was open on the holidays and a gas station big enough to take eighteen-wheelers. There was a no-name cinder-block lounge bar with lots of neon and no windows. It had an Exotic Dancers sign lit up in pink and a parking lot the size of a football field. There were diesel spills and rainbow puddles all over it. I could hear loud music coming out of the bar. There were cars parked three-deep all around it. The whole area was glowing sulfurous yellow from the streetlights. The night air was cold and full of fog. The motel itself was directly across the street from the gas station. It was a run-down swaybacked affair about twenty rooms long. It had a lot of peeling paint. It looked empty. There was an office at the left-hand end with a token vehicle porch and a buzzing Coke machine.

First question: Why would a two-star general use a place like this? I was pretty sure there wouldn't have been a DoD inquiry if he had checked into a Holiday Inn.

There were two town police cruisers parked at careless angles outside the motel's last-but-one room. There was a small plain sedan sandwiched between them. It was cold and misted over. It was a base-model Ford, red, four cylinder. It had skinny tires and plastic hubcaps. A rental, for sure. I put the Humvee next to the right-hand police cruiser and slid out into the chill. I heard the music from across the street, louder. The last-but-one room's lights were off and its door was open. I figured the cops were trying to keep the interior temperature low. Trying to stop the old guy from getting too ripe. I was anxious to take a look at him. I was pretty sure I had never seen a dead general before.


Now give one of your cards to each of the other three players. In effect, then, you will pass on 3 cards of your choice and receive 3 unknown ones in return.

The Game

The game is started by the player who has the Mah Jong card. He may lay down any one of the following combinations:

Example

A single card - 4
A pair (two cards of the same value) - 8,8
A run of pairs of adjoining values - 9,9,10,10,J,J
A triple (three cards of the same value) - 2,2,2
A full house (triple and pair) - 5,5,5,9,9
A row (also known as a straight or run) of at least five cards (the Ace can be used in a run but only as a high card such as 10JQKA - A2345 is not a legal play) - 4,5,6,7,8
The next player (to the right of the previous player) now has the following options:

Passing or Playing a similar combination but of a higher value

So, a single card can only be beaten by the playing of a single card (and this must be of a higher value); a run of 2 pairs by a run of 2 higher pairs, a row of 6 cards only by a higher row of 6 cards (3,4,5,6,7,8 is beaten by, at a minimum a row of 4,5,6,7,8,9), a full house by a higher full house (in a full house, only the value of the triple is taken into consideration). The only exception to this rule is the "Bomb" - see later.

Play then proceeds to the next player on the right. If all four players pass consecutively, the player who laid the last (highest) card combination, takes the trick and starts play again - if he has no more cards in his hand, he retires from the game and play proceeds to his neighbour on the right (if he also has no cards, then play goes to the next person on the right etc.). It is legal for players to pass and then come back in again as long as some other player played in between.

The Special Cards
The "Mah Jong" Card

Whoever has this card in his hand makes the first lead (but in doing so does not actually have to play the Mah Jong card although me may do so if he wishes).

The Mah Jong card has a value of 1 and so is the lowest card in the game. It can be used to form a row eg. 1,2,3,4,5

Whoever plays the Mah Jong (alone or as part of a row) card must call for a card - that is he must name a specific card value (eg an "8" or an "A", but not a special card). The next player who has a card of the chosen value and can play it (in accordance with the rules of the game) must then play it (under certain circumstances it can also be used as a "Bomb".)

If a player does not have the card value asked for, or cannot play it, then he can play any suitable combination or pass.

This condition, imposed by the playing of the Mah Jong card, remains in force on all players for all plays until somebody carries it out. Once the card is played by any playr, the condition is no longer in effect on anybody.
The Phoenix

The Phoenix is a very powerful card. It has a value of -25 points in the final point scoring.

It can be used as a joker in any card combination (but it cannot be used to create a Bomb - see later). However, in its role as a joker it can not be used as any of the other special cards (it can only be a 2-Ace).

It can be played as a single card. It then has a value of a half point above the last card played (eg if the Phoenix is played after an "8", then the value of the Phoenix is 8.5 and can only be beaten by a single card of value "9" or higher. The Phoenix will beat an "A" but not the Dragon. If the Phoenix is played first it has a value of 1.5

The Dragon

The Dragon is the highest single card and counts 25 points.

It can only be played as a single card and it beats even an "A" (Ace) or an "A and a half" (A Phoenix played on an "A").

It can only be beaten by a "Bomb".
A Bomb

Bombs are:

a row of at least 5 cards following on in sequence from each other, and all of the same suit (also known as a "straight flush")

or - four cards of the same value (also known as a "four of a kind").

A Bomb beats all other cards, be it a single card or a card combination. A higher Bomb beats a lower one so four 8's beats four 7's.

A "row" Bomb beats a "4" Bomb and is in turn beaten by a higher or longer row Bomb. For example the following list of Bombs is ordered from lowest to highest Bomb:

4444
5555
45678 (all Green)
56789 (all Blue)
234567 (all Blue)
Bombs can be brought into play at any time - even when it is not your turn. However, you must give a player a chance to lead a card and Bombs can not be played on just the Dog card.

Points Reckoning Up

The game is played until three of the four players have played all of their cards. The final play of the third player to go out automatically wins and he collects this final trick (unless of course he played the Dragon).
The one player remaining, who still has cards in his hand, gives:

any remaining cards in his hand to the opposing team.
all the tricks he has won to the winner of the round (the player who was the first to play all his cards).
Now count up the card points:

The "kings" and "10's" are worth 10 points each
The "5's" are worth 5 points each
The Dragon is worth 25 points
The Phoenix costs you 25 points
Exception: However, if both players of one team have a double victory (one being the winner of the round and the other coming second), then that team scores 200 points and the other team 0. In this case, card points are not counted. In fact, once this occurs there is no reason for the remaining players to even finish playing the hand.

Calling Tichu

Before playing his first card, each player has the right to declare a small "Tichu" If he then wins the round (finishes first), his team receives an extra 100 points - otherwise the team loses 100 points.

But remember:

The 100 Tichu points are given / taken away regardless of the ordinary or double victory points scored - they do not influence them in any way.

You can call a Tichu any time before playing your first card. You can therefore choose to pass for several full tricks and still call a Tichu later.

You can also call a Tichu before passing on cards at the beginning of the round - this serves to tell your partner to pass on to you his best card.

You can neither make any arrangements with your partner nor does it help you if your partner wins.

You can also call a "large Tichu" before you have taken your ninth card (in the "deal" section at the very beginning of the round). This has a value of 200 extra points.

It is entirely legal for more than one player (even on the same team) to call either type of Tichu. Obviously, however, only one of them can be right.

Winning the Game

When one team reaches 1000 points they are the winners. If both teams reach 1000 points in the same round, then the winning team is the one with the most points.

Notes and Rule Details (by Aaron)

1) None of the four special cards can be used in any type of Bomb.

2) In regard to the requirements of the Mah Jong card:

It is legal to name a card of which you know that all 4 have already been played - doing so will put no burden on any player.
Assume a "7" has been named as the player plays a row of 12345. If you have cards 5689 and the Phoenix (joker), you do NOT have to play on the trick. However, if you have 5678 and the Phoenix, you DO have to play on the trick by making the Phoenix a 4 or a 9, allowing you to play your "natural" 7. You would also have to play if you had 7777.
Since bombs can be played out of order, you can do some odd things. For example, let us say you have 2222 456789 and the player before you plays the Mah Jong alone and calls for a 7. Basically you must either play a single 7 (which would be bad as it would leave you with 5 fairly low single cards) or you can instead play a bomb of 2222. If this bomb wins the trick, you must then play a 7 but it is legal to play the 7 then as part of a combination so you would be able to play the row of 456789.
3) It is legal to play a Bomb on top of any play except the Dog. If played on the Dragon, the trick does not have to be given away.
4) The order of play given above is counterclockwise - each player is followed by the player on his right. Feel free to play it in the more common American clockwise fashion where each player is followed by the player on his left.

Hints

Try to get rid of your bad cards (low single cards and pairs) as quickly as possible and be economical with your "A's", "Dragons" and "Bombs".

Whoever, after a good power play, remains sitting on a single "4" has not yet grasped the garlic. That is, don't leave yourself with low cards and no way to ever get the lead.

If your partner is playing a Tichu, help him unreservedly. When you are the Mah Jong player, do not demand any card that could deprive him of a "Bomb" nor of a trick. Naming the card you passed to the player who plays after you is one way to make sure not to hurt your partner.

If an opponent declares a 'Tichu' then play against him, so that he finds it hard to get rid of his cards.

Version 2
Tichu Tientsin (for 6 players)

There are two teams of 3 players each.

The rules are the same as for the 4 player game with the following exceptions:

The 'large Tichu' must be declared before you take your seventh card (during the deal stage).

Each player only passes on 2 cards and only to his own 2 partners. He in turn receives a card from each of them.

The "Dog" gives the "lead" to the partner of your choice

When reckoning up:

the last player gives the remaining cards in his hand and all his tricks to the opposing team.

the player finishing fifth gives all the tricks he has won to the winner of the round.

there is now a triple victory where one team has lost all its cards and the 3 rivals still have cards in their hands. This is worth 300 points.

Version 3
Grandseigneur (for 5-12 players)

This was marketed by Hexagames as Karrierepoker.
Game Contents

32 Building Cards (4 each of Hotel, Saloon, Farm, General Store, Goldmine, Blacksmith, Sheriff's Office, and Bank)
1 Rules Overview Card
1 Instruction Sheet
Object of the Game

From the profits of their bean harvesting, the players can invest into their own Western town. The new buildings have special abilities and are used in scoring. The player who builds the most different types of buildings receives bonus points at the end of the game.

Game Preparation

Ownership of Uwe Rosenberg's Bohnanza from Amigo Games + Leisure Time is required to be able to play High Bohn. The buildings are sorted after kind and values and are put aside. Place the rules overview card where it is visible to all players. When played with five players, the game ends when the draw deck is exhausted for the fourth time.

Buying Buildings

There are eight different types of buildings that the players can use assemble their Western town. Each building type has a value of one to four - the higher the value, the better the quality of the building. Each building can only be built by earnings from a certain kind of bean. For example, the Hotel is built by gold coins earned from Black-eyed Beans. In contrast to, Bohnanza, it is therefore important to know from which type of bean harvests gold coins are acquired. The cost of a building is represented on the card, therefore the three-coin Saloon costs 3 gold coins that was earned by harvesting Green Beans. A player can build each building type only once!

The gold coins used to buy the buildings is put on the discard pile. The abilities of purchased buildings are immediately applicable!

Buildings

Each value occurs only once on each building type. For example, if a player has the three-coin Hotel, only the one-, two-, and four-coin Hotels remain for the other players to purchase.

Only two values of each building type are available with three players: as soon as two of the three players have built a Farm, for example, the other Farms are removed from the game. The third player may not purchase a Farm. With four players, three buildings per type are in the game, and with five or more players all four per type are in the game.

Order of Play

In principle, each player can buy buildings at anytime. If several players want to buy a building simultaneously, a sequence must be determined. The player whose turn it is always has the first option of buying a building, then the option moves around the table in the normal order of play.

Scoring

At the end of the game, each building scores its value. Additionally, bonus points are awarded to a player for building four or more different building types in his city: eight points for eight building types, five points for seven building types, three for six, two for five, and one point for four buildings. The final score at the end of the game therefore consists from three components: the cash, the value of the buildings, and the bonus points for having four, or more, different buildings.

The Western Town

The buildings and their residents help the players by influencing the game with their abilities. The one-coin buildings are the exception, they have no abilities. Nevertheless, they can be important because of the bonus points. The abilities modify the rules of Bohnanza for the player, who owns the corresponding building. Some special cases are explained in the following descriptions.

Farm

The three-coin Farm changes the Bohnometer for Garden Beans. The player owning the three-coin Farm may harvest individual Garden Beans and collect one gold coin for it. They can even harvest such a field if they have other fields with more beans.

Bank

At the end of the game, players receive interest when saving their gold coins in the Bank. Depending on which bank a player has, they get one extra gold coin per five, six, or eight coins stored in the Bank.

Hotel

The tricks can only be used directly before one's turn or when refilling your hand, as indicated by the card. Whoever misses the opportunity, is out of luck.

Goldmine

The ability of the four-coin Goldmine is combined with the abilities of other buildings, including the three-coin Saloon, four-coin Saloon, and the three-coin Sheriff's Office. For example, if a player applies the abilities right, he can receive five gold coins with a harvest of eight blue beans.

Saloon

The two-coin Saloon serves as additional bean field, on which however only Green Beans can be grown.

The three- and four-coin Saloons allows the players to grow Bean Stew on their normal bean fields. Each bean type must be unique in a bean stew collection, i.e. there can only be one of each kind of bean in those collections. No buildings can be bought with the gold coins that is earned by making Bean Stew! The gold coins are put aside until the end of the game, the best place is under the Saloon, and are counted at the end when calculating the player's total gold coins.

General Store

The General Store serves as storage for beans. Beans can be played there from the owner's hand in Phase 1. Beans that are turned over from the draw pile, and beans that a player gets through trades may also be placed here. Beans in the General Store can be used for trades with other players, they can never put on the owner's own bean fields.

Blacksmith

The two-coin Blacksmith works like the two-coin Saloon, but as an additional bean field for only Fire Beans.

Sheriff's Office

With the four-coin Sheriff's Office, the owner should be sure to collect the gold coin when other players harvest Blue Beans. This extra gold coin doesn't come from the gold coin(s) the harvesting player gets, but is one of the Blue Beans that would normally go on the discard pile.


If the Dragon wins the trick, the player playing it must give the entire trick away (including its own 25 points) to a player of the opposing team (he chooses which one). Despite this, the player who won the trick also wins the next lead.
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Surgical Anatomy, by Joseph Maclise

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Surgical Anatomy

Author: Joseph Maclise

Release Date: January 27, 2008 [EBook #24440]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SURGICAL ANATOMY ***




Produced by Don Kostuch





[Transcriber's Notes]

Thanks to Carol Presher of Timeless Antiques, Valley, Alabama,  for
lending the original book for this production. The 140 year old binding
had disintegrated, but the paper and printing was in amazingly good
condition, particularly the multicolor images.

Thanks also to the Mayo Clinic. This book has increased my appreciation
of their skilled care of my case by showing the many ways that things
could go wrong.

Footnotes are indicated by "[Footnote]" where they appear in the text.
The body of the footnote appears immediately following the complete
paragraph. If more than one footnote appears in the same paragraph, they
are numbered.

A few obvious misspellings have been corrected. Several cases of
alternate spelling of the same(?) word have not been modified.

Pages have been reorganized to avoid splitting sentences and paragraphs.
Each image is inserted immediately following its description.

Some of the plates did not fit on the scanner and were captured as two
separate images. The merged images show some artifacts of the merge
process due to slightly different lighting of the page. The contrast and
gamma values have been adjusted to restore the images.

To view a figure while reading the corresponding text, try opening the
file in two windows. For some viewers, you may have to copy the file and
open both the copy and the original.

Here are the definitions of some words used in the text. Medical terms
are defined only relating to humans. Words are omitted that have
ambiguous or technical meanings not expressible in lay language.


acromial (acromion)
  Outward end of the spine of the scapula or shoulder blade.

adipose
  Consisting of, resembling, or relating to fat.

anasarca
  Pronounced, generalized edema; accumulation of serous fluid in various
  tissues and cavities of the body.

anastomosing (anastomoses, anastomosis)
  Communication between blood vessels by means of collateral channels,
  when usual routes are obstructed. Opening between two organs or spaces
  that normally are not connected.

aneurism
  Localized blood-filled dilatation of a blood vessel caused by disease
  or weakening of the vessel's wall.

anthropotomist (anthropotomy)
  One versed in human anatomy.

aorta (aortic)
  Main trunk of the arterial system, conveying blood from the left
  ventricle of the heart to all of the body except the lungs.

apices (plural of apex)
  Pointed end of an object; the tip.

aponeurosis
  Sheet-like fibrous membrane, resembling a flattened tendon, that
  serves as a fascia to bind muscles together or as a means of
  connecting muscle to bone.

armamentaria
  Complete equipment of a physician or medical institution, including
  books, supplies, and instruments.

auscultation
  Listening, either directly or through a stethoscope or other
  instrument, to sounds within the body as a method of diagnosis.

axilla (axillary)
  Armpit.

azygos
  Occurring singly; not one of a pair.

bifid
  Separated or cleft into two equal parts or lobes.

biliary
  Relating to bile, the bile ducts, or the gallbladder; transporting
  bile.

bistoury
  Long, narrow surgical knife for minor incisions.

bougie
  Slender, flexible instrument introduced into body passages, to dilate,
  examine, or medicate.

brachial (brachio)
  Belonging to the arm.

bubonocele
  Inguinal hernia, in which the protrusion of the intestine is limited
  to the region of the groin.

cannula
  Metal tube for insertion into the body to draw off fluid or to
  introduce medication.

carotid
  Two large arteries, one on each side of the head.

cephalic
  Relating to the head.

cervical
  Pertaining to the neck.

chlorotic
  Benign iron-deficiency anemia in adolescent girls, marked by a pale
  yellow-green complexion.

clavicle
  Either of two slender bones extending from the upper part of the
  sternum (breastbone) to the shoulder.

coaptation
  Joining together of two surfaces, such as the edges of a wound or the
  ends of a broken bone.

condyle
  Smooth surface area at the end of a bone, forming part of a joint.

costal
  Pertaining to the ribs or the upper sides of the body.

cremaster
  Suspensory muscle of the testis.

crural
  Relating to the leg or thigh.

director
  A smoothly grooved instrument used with a knife to limit the incision
  of tissues.

distal
  Situated away from the point of origin or attachment.

dropsy (dropsical) (edema)
  Swelling from excessive accumulation of watery fluid in cells,
  tissues, or serous cavities

emphysema
  Chronic, irreversible disease of the lungs; abnormal enlargement of
  air spaces in the lungs accompanied by destruction of the tissue
  lining the walls of the air spaces.

emunctory
  Organ or duct that removes or carries waste from the body.

epigastric (epigastrium)
  Upper middle region of the abdomen.

episternal
  See sternum.

esophagus
 See oesophagus.

euphoneously (euphoniously)
  Pleasant in sound; agreeable to the ear;

exigence
  Urgency, need, demand, or requirement intrinsic to a circumstance.

extravasation
  Exuding or passing out of a vessel into surrounding tissues; said of
  blood, lymph or urine

fascia
  A band of connective tissue supporting, or binding together internal
  organs or parts of the body.

femoral
  Pertaining to, or situated at, in, or near the thigh or femur.

fistula
  Abnormal duct or passage resulting from injury, disease, or a
  congenital disorder that connects an abscess, cavity, or hollow organ
  to the body surface or to another hollow organ.

foramen (foramina)
  Opening, orifice, or short passage, as in a bone.

fossa (fossae)
  Small cavity or depression, as in a bone.

hepatic
  Pertaining to the liver.

herniae (hernia)
  Protrusion of an organ or tissue through an opening in its surrounding
  walls, especially in the abdomen.

humerus
  Bone in the arm of humans extending from the shoulder to the elbow.

hydragogue
  Cathartics that aid in the removal of edematous fluids and thus
  promote the discharge of watery fluid from the bowels.

hydrocele
  An accumulation of serous fluid, usually about the testis.

hydrops
  See dropsy. Edema.

iliac artery
  Common iliac artery--either of two large arteries that conduct blood
  to the pelvis and the legs. External iliac artery--the outer branch of
  an iliac artery that becomes the femoral artery. Hypogastric
  artery--internal iliac artery; the inner branch of an iliac artery
  that conducts blood to the gluteal region.

infundibuliform
  Shaped like a funnel.

inguinal
  Relating to, or located in the groin.

innominate
  Designated parts otherwise unnamed; as, the innominate artery, a great
  branch of the arch of the aorta; the innominate vein, a great branch
  of the superior vena cava.

inosculate
  Unite by openings; connect or join so as to become or make continuous,
  as fibers; blend, unite intimately

integument
  Natural covering, coating, enclosure, etc., as a skin, shell, or rind.

laryngotomy
  Cutting into the larynx, from the outside of the neck, to assist
  respiration, or to remove foreign bodies.

ligature
  Thread or wire for constriction of blood vessels or for removing
  tumors by strangulation.

lithotomy
  Surgery to remove one or more stones from an organ or duct.

meatus
  Body opening such as the opening of the ear or the urethral canal.

metamorphosis
  Profound change in form from one stage to the next, as from the
  caterpillar to the pupa and from the pupa to the adult butterfly.

micturition
  Passing urine; urination.


nares (naris)
  Nostrils or the nasal passages.

nisus
  Effort or endeavor to realize an aim.

occiput
  Back part of the head or skull.

oesophagus (esophagus)
  Muscular membranous tube for the passage of food from the pharynx to
  the stomach.

osseous
  Bone, bony;

palmar
  Pertaining to, or located in the palm of the hand.

paracentesis
  Puncture of the wall of a cavity to drain off fluid.

parietes
  Wall of a body part, organ, or cavity.

parotid
  Salivary gland situated at the base of each ear; near the ear.

percussion
  Striking or tapping the surface the body for diagnostic or therapeutic
  purposes.

pericardii (pericardium)
  A double membranous sac protecting the heart. The layer in contact
  with the heart is referred to as the visceral layer, the outer layer
  in contact with surrounding organs is the parietal pericardium.

peritoneum (peritonaeum)
  Serous membrane that lines the walls of the abdominal cavity and folds
  inward to enclose the viscera.

pharynx (pharyngeal)
  The cavity, with its surrounding membrane and muscles, that connects
  the mouth and nasal passages with the esophagus.

physiology (physiologist)
  Biological study of the functions of living organisms and their parts.

platysma
  Broad, thin muscle on each side of the neck, from the upper part of
  the shoulder to the corner of the mouth. They wrinkle the skin of the
  neck and depresses the corner of the mouth.

pleura
  Thin serous membrane in mammals that envelops each lung and folds back
  to make a lining for the chest cavity.

pleuritic (pleurisy)
  Inflammation of the pleura, often as a complication of a disease such
  as pneumonia, accompanied by accumulation of fluid in the pleural
  cavity, chills, fever, and painful breathing and coughing.

plexus
  Network, as of nerves or blood vessels.

pneumothorax
 Air or gas in the pleural cavity.

popliteal
  Relating to the hollow part of the leg behind the knee joint.

probang
  Long, slender, elastic rod with a sponge at the end. It is introduced
  into the esophagus or larynx to remove foreign bodies or introduce
  medication.

pudic
  Pertaining to the external organs of generation.

pyriform
  Shaped like a pear.

radius
  Bone of the forearm on the thumb side. (See ulnar)

ramus
  A branch, as of a nerve, or blood vessel.

raphe
  Seamlike union between two parts or halves of an organ.

ratiocination
  Logical reasoning.

sacculated
  Formed with or having saclike expansions.

scirrhus
  Hard dense cancerous growth usually arising from connective tissue.

septa
  Thin partition dividing two cavities or soft masses of tissue.

sternum
  Bones extending along the middle line of the ventral portion of the
  body of most vertebrates, consisting in humans of a flat, narrow bone
  connected with the clavicles and the true ribs; breastbone.

stricture
  Abnormal narrowing of a duct or passage.

subclavian
  Beneath the clavicle.

submaxillary
  Pertaining to the lower jaw.

sui generis
  The only example of its kind; a class of its own; unique

superficies
  Outward appearance.

sutural
  Junction of two bones.

symphysis
  Growing together, or the fixed or nearly fixed union, of bones.

taxis
  Replacing of a displaced part, or the reducing of a hernia, by
  manipulation without cutting.

tegument (tegumentary, integument)
  Natural outer covering.

thorax (thoracic)
  Trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing the cavity enclosed
  by the ribs, sternum, and certain vertebrae, containing the heart,
  lungs, etc.; chest.

trachea (tracheal)
  Tube descending from the larynx to the bronchi and carrying air to the
  lungs. Windpipe.

trephine (trephining)
  Small circular saw with a center pin mounted on a strong hollow metal
  shaft, used to remove circular disks of bone from the skull.

trocar
  Sharp-pointed instrument enclosed in a cannula, used for withdrawing
  fluid from a cavity, as the abdominal cavity.

tunica vaginalis
  Pouch of serous membrane covering the testis and derived from the
  peritoneum.

venesection (venisection, phlebotomy)
  Opening a vein by incision or puncture to remove blood as a
  therapeutic treatment.

viz.
  Contraction of  the Latin "videre licet" meaning "it is permissible to
  see," The -z- is not a letter, but originally a twirl, representing
  the symbol for the ending -et. Usually read as "namely."

ulnar
  Bone of the forearm on the side opposite to the thumb. (See radius)

[End Transcriber's Notes]



SURGICAL ANATOMY

BY
JOSEPH MACLISE

FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS.

WITH SIXTY-EIGHT COLOURED PLATES.

PHILADELPHIA:
BLANCHARD AND LEA.
1859.




[Stamped by owner: John D. Warren, Physician & Surgeon.]



I INSCRIBE THIS WORK TO THE GENTLEMEN
WITH WHOM AS A FELLOW-STUDENT I WAS ASSOCIATED AT THE
London University College:

AND IN AN ESPECIAL MANNER, IN THEIR NAME AS WELL AS MY OWN,
I AVAIL MYSELF OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO RECORD, ON THIS PAGE,
ALBEIT IN CHARACTERS LESS IMPRESSIVE THAN THOSE WHICH ARE
WRITTEN ON THE LIVING TABLET OF MEMORY,
THE DEBT OF GRATITUDE WHICH WE OWE TO THE LATE

SAMUEL COOPER, F.R.S., AND ROBERT LISTON, F.R.S.,

TWO AMONG THE MANY DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORS OF THAT
INSTITUTION, WHOSE PUPILS WE HAVE BEEN,
AND FROM WHOM WE INHERIT THAT BETTER POSSESSION THAN LIFE
ITSELF, AN ASPIRATION FOR THE LIGHT OF SCIENCE.

JOSEPH MACLISE.



PREFACE.

The object of this work is to present to the student of medicine and the
practitioner removed from the schools, a series of dissections
demonstrative of the relative anatomy of the principal regions of the
human body. Whatever title may most fittingly apply to a work with this
intent, whether it had better be styled surgical or medical, regional,
relative, descriptive, or topographical anatomy, will matter little,
provided its more salient or prominent character be manifested in its
own form and feature. The work, as I have designed it, will itself show
that my intent has been to base the practical upon the anatomical, and
to unite these wherever a mutual dependence was apparent.

That department of anatomical research to which the name topographical
strictly applies, as confining itself to the mere account of the form
and relative location of the several organs comprising the animal body,
is almost wholly isolated from the main questions of physiological and
transcendental interest, and cannot, therefore, be supposed to speak in
those comprehensive views which anatomy, taken in its widest
signification as a science, necessarily includes. While the anatomist
contents himself with describing the form and position of organs as they
appear exposed, layer after layer, by his dissecting instruments, he
does not pretend to soar any higher in the region of science than the
humble level of other mechanical arts, which merely appreciate the
fitting arrangement of things relative to one another, and combinative
to the whole design of the form or machine of whatever species this may
be, whether organic or inorganic. The descriptive anatomist of the human
body aims at no higher walk in science than this, and hence his
nomenclature is, as it is, a barbarous jargon of words, barren of all
truthful signification, inconsonant with nature, and blindly
irrespective of the cognitio certa ex principiis certis exorta.

Still, however, this anatomy of form, although so much requiring
purification of its nomenclature, in order to clothe it in the high
reaching dignity of a science, does not disturb the medical or surgical
practitioner, so far as their wants are concerned. Although it may, and
actually does, trammel the votary who aspires to the higher
generalizations and the development of a law of formation, yet, as this
is not the object of the surgical anatomist, the nomenclature, such as
it is, will answer conveniently enough the present purpose.

The anatomy of the human form, contemplated in reference to that of all
other species of animals to which it bears comparison, constitutes the
study of the comparative anatomist, and, as such, establishes the
science in its full intent. But the anatomy of the human figure,
considered as a species, per se, is confessedly the humblest walk of the
understanding in a subject which, as anatomy, is relationary, and
branches far and wide through all the domain of an animal kingdom. While
restricted to the study of the isolated human species, the cramped
judgment wastes in such narrow confine; whereas, in the expansive gaze
over all allying and allied species, the intellect bodies forth to its
vision the full appointed form of natural majesty; and after having
experienced the manifold analogies and differentials of the many, is
thereby enabled, when it returns to the study of the one, to view this
one of human type under manifold points of interest, to the appreciation
of which the understanding never wakens otherwise. If it did not happen
that the study of the human form (confined to itself) had some practical
bearing, such study could not deserve the name of anatomical, while
anatomical means comparative, and whilst comparison implies inductive
reasoning.

However, practical anatomy, such as it is, is concerned with an exact
knowledge of the relationship of organs as they stand in reference to
each other, and to the whole design of which these organs are the
integral parts. The figure, the capacity, and the contents of the
thoracic and abdominal cavities, become a study of not more urgent
concernment to the physician, than are the regions named cervical,
axillary, inguinal, &c., to the surgeon. He who would combine both modes
of a relationary practice, such as that of medicine and surgery, should
be well acquainted with the form and structures characteristic of all
regions of the human body; and it may be doubted whether he who pursues
either mode of practice, wholly exclusive of the other, can do so with
honest purpose and large range of understanding, if he be not equally
well acquainted with the subject matter of both. It is, in fact, more
triflingly fashionable than soundly reasonable, to seek to define the
line of demarcation between the special callings of medicine and
surgery, for it will ever be as vain an endeavour to separate the one
from the other without extinguishing the vitality of both, as it would
be to sunder the trunk from the head, and give to each a separate living
existence. The necessary division of labour is the only reason that can
be advanced in excuse of specialisms; but it will be readily agreed to,
that that practitioner who has first laid within himself the foundation
of a general knowledge of matters relationary to his subject, will
always be found to pursue the speciality according to the light of
reason and science.

Anatomy--the [Greek words], the knowledge based on principle--is the
foundation of the curative art, cultivated as a science in all its
branchings; and comparison is the nurse of reason, which we are fain to
make our guide in bringing the practical to bear productively. The human
body, in a state of health, is the standard whereunto we compare the
same body in a state of disease. The knowledge of the latter can only
exist by the knowledge of the former, and by the comparison of both.

Comparison may be fairly termed the pioneer to all certain knowledge. It
is a potent instrument--the only one, in the hands of the pathologist,
as well as in those of the philosophic generalizer of anatomical facts,
gathered through the extended survey of an animal kingdom. We best
recognise the condition of a dislocated joint after we have become well
acquainted with the contour of its normal state; all abnormal conditions
are best understood by a knowledge of what we know to be normal
character. Every anatomist is a comparer, in a greater or lesser degree;
and he is the greatest anatomist who compares the most generally.

Impressed with this belief, I have laid particular emphasis on imitating
the character of the normal form of the human figure, taken as a whole;
that of its several regions as parts of this whole, and that of the
various organs (contained within those regions) as its integrals or
elements. And in order to present this subject of relative anatomy in
more vivid reality to the understanding of the student, I have chosen
the medium of illustrating by figure rather than by that of written
language, which latter, taken alone, is almost impotent in a study of
this nature.

It is wholly impossible for anyone to describe form in words without the
aid of figures. Even the mathematical strength of Euclid would avail
nothing, if shorn of his diagrams. The professorial robe is impotent
without its diagrams. Anatomy being a science existing by demonstration,
(for as much as form in its actuality is the language of nature,) must
be discoursed of by the instrumentality of figure.

An anatomical illustration enters the understanding straight-forward in
a direct passage, and is almost independent of the aid of written
language. A picture of form is a proposition which solves itself. It is
an axiom encompassed in a frame-work of self-evident truth. The best
substitute for Nature herself, upon which to teach the knowledge of her,
is an exact representation of her form.

Every surgical anatomist will (if he examine himself) perceive that,
previously to undertaking the performance of an operation upon the
living body, he stands reassured and self-reliant in that degree in
which he is capable of conjuring up before his mental vision a distinct
picture of his subject. Mr. Liston could draw the same anatomical
picture mentally which Sir Charles Bell's handicraft could draw in
reality of form and figure. Scarpa was his own draughtsman.

If there may be any novelty now-a-days possible to be recognised upon
the out-trodden track of human relative anatomy, it can only be in
truthful and well-planned illustration. Under this view alone may the
anatomist plead an excuse for reiterating a theme which the beautiful
works of Cowper, Haller, Hunter, Scarpa, Soemmering, and others, have
dealt out so respectably. Except the human anatomist turns now to what
he terms the practical ends of his study, and marshals his little
knowledge to bear upon those ends, one may proclaim anthropotomy to have
worn itself out. Dissection can do no more, except to repeat
Cruveilhier. And that which Cruveilhier has done for human anatomy,
Muller has completed for the physiological interpretation of human
anatomy; Burdach has philosophised, and Magendie has experimented to the
full upon this theme, so far as it would permit. All have pushed the
subject to its furthest limits, in one aspect of view. The narrow circle
is footworn. All the needful facts are long since gathered, sown, and
known. We have been seekers after those facts from the days of
Aristotle. Are we to put off the day of attempting interpretation for
three thousand years more, to allow the human physiologist time to slice
the brain into more delicate atoms than he has done hitherto, in order
to coin more names, and swell the dictionary? No! The work must now be
retrospective, if we would render true knowledge progressive. It is not
a list of new and disjointed facts that Science at present thirsts for;
but she is impressed with the conviction that her wants can alone be
supplied by the creation of a new and truthful theory,--a generalization
which the facts already known are sufficient to supply, if they were
well ordered according to their natural relationship and mutual
dependence. "Le temps viendra peut-etre," says Fontenelle, "que l'on
joindra en un corps regulier ces membres epars; et, s'ils sont tels
qu'on le souhaite, ils s'assembleront en quelque sorte d'eux-memes.
Plusieurs verites separees, des qu'elles sont en assez grand nombre,
offrent si vivement a l'esprit leurs rapports et leur mutuelle
dependance, qu'il semble qu'apres les avoir detachees par une espece de
violence les unes des autres, elles cherchent naturellement a se
reunir."--(Preface sur l'utilite des Sciences, &c.)

The comparison of facts already known must henceforward be the scalpel
which we are to take in hand. We must return by the same road on which
we set out, and reexamine the things and phenomena which, as novices, we
passed by too lightly. The travelled experience may now sit down and
contemplate.

That which I have said and proved elsewhere in respect to the skeleton
system may, with equal truth, be remarked of the nervous system--namely,
that the question is not in how far does the limit of diversity extend
through the condition of an evidently common analogy, but by what rule
or law the uniform ens is rendered the diverse entity? The womb of
anatomical science is pregnant of the true interpretation of the law of
unity in variety; but the question is of longer duration than was the
life of the progenitor. Though Aristotle and Linnaeus, and Buffon and
Cuvier, and Geoffroy St. Hilaire and Leibnitz, and Gothe, have lived and
spoken, yet the present state of knowledge proclaims the Newton of
physiology to be as yet unborn. The iron scalpel has already made
acquaintance with not only the greater parts, but even with the
infinitesimals of the human body; and reason, confined to this narrow
range of a subject, perceives herself to be imprisoned, and quenches her
guiding light in despair. Originality has outlived itself; and discovery
is a long-forgotten enterprise, except as pursued in the microcosm on
the field of the microscope, which, it must be confessed, has drawn
forth demonstrations only commensurate in importance with the magnitude
of the littleness there seen.

The subject of our study, whichever it happen to be, may appear
exhausted of all interest, and the promise of valuable novelty, owing to
two reasons:--It may be, like descriptive human anatomy, so cold, poor
and sterile in its own nature, and so barren of product, that it will be
impossible for even the genius of Promethean fire to warm it; or else,
like existing physiology, the very point of view from which the mental
eye surveys the theme, will blight the fair prospect of truth, distort
induction, and clog up the paces of ratiocination. The physiologist of
the present day is too little of a comparative anatomist, and far too
closely enveloped in the absurd jargon of the anthropotomist, ever to
hope to reveal any great truth for science, and dispel the mists which
still hang over the phenomena of the nervous system. He is steeped too
deeply in the base nomenclature of the antique school, and too indolent
to question the import of Pons, Commissure, Island, Taenia, Nates,
Testes, Cornu, Hippocamp, Thalamus, Vermes, Arbor Vitro, Respiratory
Tract, Ganglia of Increase, and all such phrase of unmeaning sound, ever
to be productive of lucid interpretation of the cerebro-spinal ens.
Custom alone sanctions his use of such names; but

  "Custom calls him to it!
  What custom wills; should custom always do it,
  The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
  And mountainous error be too highly heaped,
  For truth to overpeer."

Of the illustrations of this work I may state, in guarantee of their
anatomical accuracy, that they have been made by myself from my own
dissections, first planne
at the London University College, and
afterwards realised at the Ecole Pratique, and School of Anatomy
adjoining the Hospital La Pitie, Paris, a few years since. As far as the
subject of relative anatomy could admit of novel treatment, rigidly
confined to facts unalterable, I have endeavoured to give it.

The unbroken surface of the human figure is as a map to the surgeon,
explanatory of the anatomy arranged beneath; and I have therefore left
appended to the dissected regions as much of the undissected as was
necessary. My object was to indicate the interior through the
superficies, and thereby illustrate the whole living body which concerns
surgery, through its dissected dead counterfeit. We dissect the dead
animal body in order to furnish the memory with as clear an account of
the structure contained in its living representative, which we are not
allowed to analyse, as if this latter were perfectly translucent, and
directly demonstrative of its component parts.

J. M



TABLE OF CONTENTS.

PREFACE

INTRODUCTORY TO THE STUDY OF ANATOMY AS A SCIENCE.

COMMENTARY ON PLATES 1 & 2

THE FORM OF THE THORAX, AND THE RELATIVE POSITION OF ITS
CONTAINED PARTS--THE LUNGS, HEART, AND LARGER BLOOD VESSELS.

The structure, mechanism, and respiratory motions of the thoracic
apparatus. Its varieties in form, according to age and sex. Its
deformities. Applications to the study of physical diagnosis.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 3 & 4

THE SURGICAL FORM OF THE SUPERFICIAL, CERVICAL, AND FACIAL
REGIONS, AND THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE PRINCIPAL BLOOD
VESSELS, NERVES, ETC.

The cervical surgical triangles considered in reference to the position
of the subclavian and carotid vessels, &c. Venesection in respect to the
external jugular vein. Anatomical reasons for avoiding transverse
incisions in the neck. The parts endangered in surgical operations on
the parotid and submaxillary glands, &c.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 5 & 6

THE SURGICAL FORM OF THE DEEP CERVICAL AND FACIAL REGIONS,
AND THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE PRINCIPAL BLOOD VESSELS,
NERVES, ETC.

The course of the carotid and subclavian vessels in reference to each
other, to the surface, and to their respective surgical triangles.
Differences in the form of the neck in individuals of different age and
sex. Special relations of the vessels. Physiological remarks on the
carotid artery. Peculiarities in the relative position of the subclavian
artery.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 7 & 8

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AND CAROTID
REGIONS, AND THE RELATIVE ANATOMY OF THEIR CONTENTS.

General observations. Abnormal complications of the carotid and
subclavian arteries. Relative position of the vessels liable to change
by the motions of the head and shoulder. Necessity for a fixed surgical
position in operations affecting these vessels. The operations for tying
the carotid or the subclavian at different situations in cases of
aneurism, &c. The operation for tying the innominate artery. Reasons of
the unfavourable results of this proceeding.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 9 & 10

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE EPISTERNAL OR TRACHEAL
REGION, AND THE RELATIVE POSITION OF ITS MAIN BLOOD VESSELS,
NERVES, ETC.

Varieties of the primary aortic branches explained by the law of
metamorphosis. The structures at the median line of the neck. The
operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy in the child and adult, The
right and left brachio-cephalic arteries and their varieties considered
surgically.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 11 & 12

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE AXILLARY AND BRACHIAL
REGIONS, DISPLAYING THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THEIR CONTAINED PARTS.

The operation for tying the axillary artery. Remarks on fractures of the
clavicle and dislocation of the humerus in reference to the axillary
vessels. The operation for tying the brachial artery near the axilla.
Mode of compressing this vessel against the humerus.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 13 & 14

THE SURGICAL FORMS OF THE MALE AND FEMALE AXILLAE
COMPARED.

The mammary and axillary glands in health and disease. Excision of these
glands. Axillary abscess. General surgical observations on the axilla.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 15 & 16

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE BEND OF THE ELBOW AND THE
FOREARM, SHOWING THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES.

General remarks. Operation for tying the brachial artery at its middle
and lower thirds. Varieties of the brachial artery. Venesection at the
bend of the elbow. The radial and ulnar pulse. Operations for tying the
radial and ulnar arteries in several parts.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 17, 18, & 19

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE WRIST AND HAND.

General observations. Superficial and deep palmar arches. Wounds of
these vessels requiring a ligature to be applied to both ends. General
surgical remarks on the arteries of the upper limb. Palmar abscess, &c.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 20 & 21.

THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE CRANIAL, NASAL,
ORAL, AND PHARYNGEAL CAVITIES, ETC.

Fractures of the cranium, and the operation of trephining anatomically
considered. Instrumental measures in reference to the fauces, tonsils,
oesophagus, and lungs.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 22

THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE SUPERFICIAL
ORGANS OF THE THORAX AND ABDOMEN.

Application to correct physical diagnosis. Changes in the relative
position of the organs during the respiratory motions. Changes effected
by disease. Physiological remarks on wounds of the thorax and on
pleuritic effusion. Symmetry of the organs, &c.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 23

THE RELATIVE POSITION OF THE DEEPER ORGANS
OF THE THORAX AND THOSE OF THE ABDOMEN.

Of the heart in reference to auscultation and percussion. Of the lungs,
ditto. Relative capacity of the thorax and abdomen as influenced by the
motions of the diaphragm. Abdominal respiration. Physical causes of
abdominal herniae. Enlarged liver as affecting the capacity of the
thorax and abdomen. Physiological remarks on wounds of the lungs.
Pneumothorax, emphysema, &c.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 24

THE RELATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL BLOODVESSELS TO THE
VISCERA OF THE THORACICO-ABDOMINAL CAVITY.

Symmetrical arrangement of the vessels arising from the median
thoracico-abdominal aorta, &c. Special relations of the aorta. Aortic
sounds. Aortic aneurism and its effects on neighbouring organs.
Paracentesis thoracis. Physical causes of dropsy. Hepatic abscess.
Chronic enlargements of the liver and spleen as affecting the relative
position of other parts. Biliary concretions. Wounds of the intestines.
Artificial anus.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 25

THE RELATION OF THE PRINCIPAL BLOODVESSELS OF
THE THORAX AND ABDOMEN TO THE OSSEOUS SKELETON.

The vessels conforming to the shape of the skeleton. Analogy between the
branches arising from both ends of the aorta. Their normal and abnormal
conditions. Varieties as to the length of these arteries considered
surgically. Measurements of the abdomen and thorax compared.
Anastomosing branches of the thoracic and abdominal parts of the aorta.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 26

THE RELATION OF THE INTERNAL PARTS TO THE EXTERNAL SURFACE.

In health and disease. Displacement of the lungs from pleuritic
effusion. Paracentesis thoracis. Hydrops pericardii. Puncturation.
Abdominal and ovarian dropsy as influencing the position of the viscera.
Diagnosis of both dropsies. Paracentesis abdominis. Vascular
obstructions and their effects.


COMMENTARY ON PLATE 27

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE SUPERFICIAL PARTS AND
BLOODVESSELS OF THE INGUINO-FEMORAL REGION.

Physical causes of the greater frequency of inguinal and femoral
herniae. The surface considered in reference to the subjacent parts.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 28 & 29

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, AND
FOURTH LAYERS OF THE INGUINAL REGION, IN CONNEXION WITH THOSE
OF THE THIGH.

The external abdominal ring and spermatic cord. Cremaster muscle--how
formed. The parts considered in reference to inguinal hernia. The
saphenous opening, spermatic cord, and femoral vessels in relation to
femoral hernia.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 30 & 31

THE SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, AND
EIGHTH LAYERS OF THE INGUINAL REGION, AND THEIR CONNEXION WITH
THOSE OF THE THIGH.

The conjoined tendon, internal inguinal ring, and cremaster muscle,
considered in reference to the descent of the testicle and of the
hernia. The structure and direction of the inguinal canal.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 32, 33, & 34

THE DISSECTION OF THE OBLIQUE OR EXTERNAL,
AND OF THE DIRECT OR INTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA.

Their points of origin and their relations to the inguinal rings. The
triangle of Hesselbach. Investments and varieties of the external
inguinal hernia, its relations to the epigastric artery, and its
position in the canal. Bubonocele, complete and scrotal varieties in the
male. Internal inguinal hernia considered in reference to the same
points. Corresponding varieties of both herniae in the female.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 35, 36, 37, & 38

THE DISTINCTIVE DIAGNOSIS BETWEEN EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL
INGUINAL HERNIAE, THE TAXIS, SEAT OF STRICTURE, AND THE OPERATION.

Both herniae compared as to position and structural characters. The
co-existence of both rendering diagnosis difficult. The oblique changing
to the direct hernia as to position, but not in relation to the
epigastric artery. The taxis performed in reference to the position of
both as regards the canal and abdominal rings. The seat of stricture
varying. The sac. The lines of incision required to avoid the epigastric
artery. Necessity for opening the sac.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 39 & 40

DEMONSTRATIONS OF THE NATURE OF CONGENITAL AND
INFANTILE INGUINAL HERNIAE, AND OF HYDROCELE.

Descent of the testicle. The testicle in the scrotum. Isolation of its
tunica vaginalis. The tunica vaginalis communicating with the abdomen.
Sacculated serous spermatic canal. Hydrocele of the isolated tunica
vaginalis. Congenital hernia and hydrocele. Infantile hernia. Oblique
inguinal hernia. How formed and characterized.


COMMENTARY ON PLATES 41 & 42

DEMONSTRATIONS OF THE ORIGIN AND PROGRESS
OF INGUINAL HERNIAE IN GENERAL.

Formation of the serous sac. Formation of congenital hernia. Hernia in
the canal of Nuck. Formation of infantile hernia. Dilatation of the
serous sac. Funnel-shaped investments of the hernia. Descent of the
hernia like that of the testicle. Varieties of infantile hernia.
Sacculated cord. Oblique internal inguinal hernia--cannot be congenital.
Varieties of internal hernia. Direct external hernia. Varieties of the
inguinal canal.
