Version 1
Tichu Nanjing (for four players)

The Cards

There are four suits (Jack, Sword, Pagoda, Star) of 13 cards each corresponding in value to Bridge cards ie. The highest card in each suit being the Ace and the lowest being the "2". The "10's" lie between the "9" and the "Jack".

There are four special cards : Mah Jong, Dog, Phoenix and Dragon (see illustration in German rules) - which brings the total number of cards to 56.

The players play in two teams each of two players. Each player sits opposite his partner and they work together in acquiring points.

Preparation

The winner of the previous round shuffles and cuts the deck.

Instead of dealing out the cards, each player in turn takes a card from the top of the deck until the pile is exhausted and each player has 14 cards in his hand. Editor's note: We just deal the cards normally by first dealing 8 cards to each player and later giving each player 6 more (the reason for the two phases of dealing is below).
As serious as a heart attack. Maybe those were Ken Kramer's last words, like a final explosion of panic in his mind as he stopped breathing and dropped into the abyss. He was out of line, in every way there was, and he knew it. He was where he shouldn't have been, with someone he shouldn't have been with, carrying something he should have kept in a safer place. But he was getting away with it. He was playing and winning. He was on top of his game. He was probably smiling. Until the sudden thump deep inside his chest betrayed him. Then everything turned around. Success became instant catastrophe. He had no time to put anything right.

Nobody knows what a fatal heart attack feels like. There are no survivors to tell us. Medics talk about necrosis, and clots, and oxygen starvation, and occluded blood vessels. They predict rapid useless cardiac fluttering, or else nothing at all. They use words like infarction and fibrillation, but those terms mean nothing to us. You just drop dead is what they should say. Ken Kramer certainly did. He just dropped dead, and he took his secrets with him, and the trouble he left behind nearly killed me too.
I was alone in a borrowed office. There was a clock on the wall. It had no second hand. Just an hour hand, and a minute hand. It was electric. It didn't tick. It was completely silent, like the room. I was watching the minute hand, intently. It wasn't moving.

I waited.

It moved. It jumped ahead six degrees. Its motion was mechanical and damped and precise. It bounced once and quivered a little and came to rest.

A minute.

One down, one to go.

Sixty more seconds.

I kept on watching. The clock stayed still for a long, long time. Then the hand jumped again. Another six degrees, another minute, straight-up midnight, and 1989 was 1990.

I pushed my chair back and stood up behind the desk. The phone rang. I figured it was someone calling to wish me a happy new year. But it wasn't. It was a civilian cop calling because he had a dead soldier in a motel thirty miles off-post.

"I need the Military Police duty officer," he said.

I sat down again, behind the desk.

"You got him," I said.

"We've got one of yours, dead."

"One of mine?"

"A soldier," he said.

"Where?"

"Motel, in town."

"Dead how?" I asked.

"Heart attack, most likely," the guy said.

I paused. Turned the page on the army-issue calendar on the desk, from December 31st to January 1st.

"Nothing suspicious?" I said.

"Don't see anything."

"You seen heart attacks before?"

"Lots of them."

"OK," I said. "Call post headquarters."

I gave him the number.

"Happy New Year," I said.

"You don't need to come out?" he said.

"No," I said. I put the phone down. I didn't need to go out. The army is a big institution, a little bigger than Detroit, a little smaller than Dallas, and just as unsentimental as either place. Current active strength is 930,000 men and women, and they are as representative of the general American population as you can get. Death rate in America is around 865 people per 100,000 population per year, and in the absence of sustained combat soldiers don't die any faster or slower than regular people. On the whole they are younger and fitter than the population at large, but they smoke more and drink more and eat worse and stress harder and do all kinds of dangerous things in training. So their life expectancy comes out about average. Soldiers die at the same speed as everyone else. Do the math with the death rate versus current strength, and you have twenty-two dead soldiers every single day of every single year, accidents, suicides, heart disease, cancer, stroke, lung disease, liver failure, kidney failure. Like dead citizens in Detroit, or Dallas. So I didn't need to go out. I'm a cop, not a mortician.

The clock moved. The hand jumped and bounced and settled. Three minutes past midnight. The phone rang again. It was someone calling to wish me a happy new year. It was the sergeant in the office outside of mine.

"Happy New Year," she said to me.

"You too," I said. "You couldn't stand up and put your head in the door?"

"You couldn't put yours out the door?"

"I was on the phone."

"Who was it?"

"Nobody," I said. "Just some grunt didn't make it to the new decade."

"You want coffee?"

"Sure," I said. "Why not?"

I put the phone down again. At that point I had been in more than six years, and army coffee was one of the things that made me happy to stay in. It was the best in the world, no question. So were the sergeants. This one was a mountain woman from north Georgia. I had known her two days. She lived off-post in a trailer park somewhere in the North Carolina Badlands. She had a baby son. She had told me all about him. I had heard nothing about a husband. She was all bone and sinew and she was as hard as woodpecker lips, but she liked me. I could tell, because she brought me coffee. They don't like you, they don't bring you coffee. They knife you in the back instead. My door opened and she came in, carrying two mugs, one for her and one for me.

"Happy New Year," I said to her.

She put the coffee down on my desk, both mugs.

"Will it be?" she said.

"Don't see why not," I said.

"The Berlin Wall is halfway down. They showed it on the television. They were having a big party over there."

"I'm glad someone was, somewhere."

"Lots of people. Big crowds. All singing and dancing."

"I didn't see the news."

"This all was six hours ago. The time difference."

"They're probably still at it."

"They had sledgehammers."

"They're allowed. Their half is a free city. We spent forty-five years keeping it that way."

"Pretty soon we won't have an enemy anymore."

I tried the coffee. Hot, black, the best in the world.

"We won," I said. "Isn't that supposed to be a good thing?"

"Not if you depend on Uncle Sam's paycheck."

She was dressed like me in standard woodland camouflage battledress uniform. Her sleeves were neatly rolled. Her MP brassard was exactly horizontal. I figured she had it safety-pinned in back where nobody could see. Her boots were gleaming.

"You got any desert camos?" I asked her.

"Never been to the desert," she said.

"They changed the pattern. They put big brown splotches on it. Five years' research. Infantry guys are calling it chocolate chip. It's not a good pattern. They'll have to change it back. But it'll take them another five years to figure that out."

"So?"

"If it takes them five years to revise a camo pattern, your kid will be through college before they figure out force reduction. So don't worry about it."

"OK," she said, not believing me. "You think he's good for college?"

"I never met him."

She said nothing.

"The army hates change," I said. "And we'll always have enemies."

She said nothing. My phone rang again. She leaned forward and answered it for me. Listened for about eleven seconds and handed me the receiver.

"Colonel Garber, sir," she said. "He's in D.C."

She took her mug and left the room. Colonel Garber was ultimately my boss, and although he was a pleasant human being it was unlikely he was calling eight minutes into New Year's Day simply to be social. That wasn't his style. Some brass does that stuff. They come over all cheery on the big holidays, like they're really just one of the boys. But Leon Garber wouldn't have dreamed of trying that, with anyone, and least of all with me. Even if he had known I was going to be there.

"Reacher here," I said.

There was a long pause.

"I thought you were in Panama," Leon Garber said.

"I got orders," I said.

"From Panama to Fort Bird? Why?"

"Not my place to ask."

"When was this?"

"Two days ago."

"That's a kick in the teeth," he said. "Isn't it?"

"Is it?"

"Panama was probably more exciting."

"It was OK," I said.

"And they got you working duty officer on New Year's Eve already?"

"I volunteered," I said. "I'm trying to make people like me."

"That's a hopeless task," he said.

"A sergeant just brought me coffee."

There was another pause. "Someone just call you about a dead soldier in a motel?" he asked.

"Eight minutes ago," I said. "I shuffled it off to headquarters."

"And they shuffled it off to someone else and I just got pulled out of a party to hear all about it."

"Why?"

"Because the dead soldier in question is a two-star general."

The phone went quiet.

"I didn't think to ask," I said.

The phone stayed quiet.

"Generals are mortal," I said. "Same as anyone else."

No reply.

"There was nothing suspicious," I said. "He croaked, is all. Heart attack. Probably had gout. I didn't see a reason to get excited."

"It's a question of dignity," Garber said. "We can't leave a two-star lying around belly-up in public without reacting. We need a presence."

"And that would be me?"

"I'd prefer someone else. But you're probably the highest-ranking sober MP in the world tonight. So yes, it would be you."

"It'll take me an hour to get there."

"He's not going anywhere. He's dead. And they haven't found a sober medical examiner yet."

"OK," I said.

"Be respectful," Garber said.

"OK," I said again.

"And be polite. Off-post, we're in their hands. It's a civilian jurisdiction."

"I'm familiar with civilians. I met one, once."

"But control the situation," he said. "You know, if it needs controlling."

"He probably died in bed," I said. "Like people do."

"Call me," he said. "If you need to."

"Was it a good party?"

"Excellent. My daughter is visiting."

He clicked off and I called the civilian dispatcher back and got the name and the address of the motel. Then I left my coffee on my desk and told my sergeant what was up and headed back to my quarters to change. I figured a presence required Class A greens, not woodland-pattern BDUs.



I took a Humvee from the MP motor pool and was logged out through the main gate. I found the motel inside fifty minutes. It was thirty miles due north of Fort Bird through dark undistinguished North Carolina countryside that was equal parts strip malls and scrubby forest and what I figured were dormant sweet potato fields. It was all new to me. I had never served there before. The roads were very quiet. Everyone was still inside, partying. I hoped I would be back at Bird before they all came out and started driving home. Although I really liked the Humvee's chances, head-on against a civilian ride.

The motel was part of a knot of low commercial structures clustered in the darkness near a big highway interchange. There was a truck stop as a centerpiece. It had a greasy spoon that was open on the holidays and a gas station big enough to take eighteen-wheelers. There was a no-name cinder-block lounge bar with lots of neon and no windows. It had an Exotic Dancers sign lit up in pink and a parking lot the size of a football field. There were diesel spills and rainbow puddles all over it. I could hear loud music coming out of the bar. There were cars parked three-deep all around it. The whole area was glowing sulfurous yellow from the streetlights. The night air was cold and full of fog. The motel itself was directly across the street from the gas station. It was a run-down swaybacked affair about twenty rooms long. It had a lot of peeling paint. It looked empty. There was an office at the left-hand end with a token vehicle porch and a buzzing Coke machine.

First question: Why would a two-star general use a place like this? I was pretty sure there wouldn't have been a DoD inquiry if he had checked into a Holiday Inn.

There were two town police cruisers parked at careless angles outside the motel's last-but-one room. There was a small plain sedan sandwiched between them. It was cold and misted over. It was a base-model Ford, red, four cylinder. It had skinny tires and plastic hubcaps. A rental, for sure. I put the Humvee next to the right-hand police cruiser and slid out into the chill. I heard the music from across the street, louder. The last-but-one room's lights were off and its door was open. I figured the cops were trying to keep the interior temperature low. Trying to stop the old guy from getting too ripe. I was anxious to take a look at him. I was pretty sure I had never seen a dead general before.


Now give one of your cards to each of the other three players. In effect, then, you will pass on 3 cards of your choice and receive 3 unknown ones in return.

The Game

The game is started by the player who has the Mah Jong card. He may lay down any one of the following combinations:

Example

A single card - 4
A pair (two cards of the same value) - 8,8
A run of pairs of adjoining values - 9,9,10,10,J,J
A triple (three cards of the same value) - 2,2,2
A full house (triple and pair) - 5,5,5,9,9
A row (also known as a straight or run) of at least five cards (the Ace can be used in a run but only as a high card such as 10JQKA - A2345 is not a legal play) - 4,5,6,7,8
The next player (to the right of the previous player) now has the following options:

Passing or Playing a similar combination but of a higher value

So, a single card can only be beaten by the playing of a single card (and this must be of a higher value); a run of 2 pairs by a run of 2 higher pairs, a row of 6 cards only by a higher row of 6 cards (3,4,5,6,7,8 is beaten by, at a minimum a row of 4,5,6,7,8,9), a full house by a higher full house (in a full house, only the value of the triple is taken into consideration). The only exception to this rule is the "Bomb" - see later.

Play then proceeds to the next player on the right. If all four players pass consecutively, the player who laid the last (highest) card combination, takes the trick and starts play again - if he has no more cards in his hand, he retires from the game and play proceeds to his neighbour on the right (if he also has no cards, then play goes to the next person on the right etc.). It is legal for players to pass and then come back in again as long as some other player played in between.

The Special Cards
The "Mah Jong" Card

Whoever has this card in his hand makes the first lead (but in doing so does not actually have to play the Mah Jong card although me may do so if he wishes).

The Mah Jong card has a value of 1 and so is the lowest card in the game. It can be used to form a row eg. 1,2,3,4,5

Whoever plays the Mah Jong (alone or as part of a row) card must call for a card - that is he must name a specific card value (eg an "8" or an "A", but not a special card). The next player who has a card of the chosen value and can play it (in accordance with the rules of the game) must then play it (under certain circumstances it can also be used as a "Bomb".)

If a player does not have the card value asked for, or cannot play it, then he can play any suitable combination or pass.

This condition, imposed by the playing of the Mah Jong card, remains in force on all players for all plays until somebody carries it out. Once the card is played by any playr, the condition is no longer in effect on anybody.
The Phoenix

The Phoenix is a very powerful card. It has a value of -25 points in the final point scoring.

It can be used as a joker in any card combination (but it cannot be used to create a Bomb - see later). However, in its role as a joker it can not be used as any of the other special cards (it can only be a 2-Ace).

It can be played as a single card. It then has a value of a half point above the last card played (eg if the Phoenix is played after an "8", then the value of the Phoenix is 8.5 and can only be beaten by a single card of value "9" or higher. The Phoenix will beat an "A" but not the Dragon. If the Phoenix is played first it has a value of 1.5

The Dragon

The Dragon is the highest single card and counts 25 points.

It can only be played as a single card and it beats even an "A" (Ace) or an "A and a half" (A Phoenix played on an "A").

It can only be beaten by a "Bomb".
A Bomb

Bombs are:

a row of at least 5 cards following on in sequence from each other, and all of the same suit (also known as a "straight flush")

or - four cards of the same value (also known as a "four of a kind").

A Bomb beats all other cards, be it a single card or a card combination. A higher Bomb beats a lower one so four 8's beats four 7's.

A "row" Bomb beats a "4" Bomb and is in turn beaten by a higher or longer row Bomb. For example the following list of Bombs is ordered from lowest to highest Bomb:

4444
5555
45678 (all Green)
56789 (all Blue)
234567 (all Blue)
Bombs can be brought into play at any time - even when it is not your turn. However, you must give a player a chance to lead a card and Bombs can not be played on just the Dog card.

Points Reckoning Up

The game is played until three of the four players have played all of their cards. The final play of the third player to go out automatically wins and he collects this final trick (unless of course he played the Dragon).
The one player remaining, who still has cards in his hand, gives:

any remaining cards in his hand to the opposing team.
all the tricks he has won to the winner of the round (the player who was the first to play all his cards).
Now count up the card points:

The "kings" and "10's" are worth 10 points each
The "5's" are worth 5 points each
The Dragon is worth 25 points
The Phoenix costs you 25 points
Exception: However, if both players of one team have a double victory (one being the winner of the round and the other coming second), then that team scores 200 points and the other team 0. In this case, card points are not counted. In fact, once this occurs there is no reason for the remaining players to even finish playing the hand.

Calling Tichu

Before playing his first card, each player has the right to declare a small "Tichu" If he then wins the round (finishes first), his team receives an extra 100 points - otherwise the team loses 100 points.

But remember:

The 100 Tichu points are given / taken away regardless of the ordinary or double victory points scored - they do not influence them in any way.

You can call a Tichu any time before playing your first card. You can therefore choose to pass for several full tricks and still call a Tichu later.

You can also call a Tichu before passing on cards at the beginning of the round - this serves to tell your partner to pass on to you his best card.

You can neither make any arrangements with your partner nor does it help you if your partner wins.

You can also call a "large Tichu" before you have taken your ninth card (in the "deal" section at the very beginning of the round). This has a value of 200 extra points.

It is entirely legal for more than one player (even on the same team) to call either type of Tichu. Obviously, however, only one of them can be right.

Winning the Game

When one team reaches 1000 points they are the winners. If both teams reach 1000 points in the same round, then the winning team is the one with the most points.

Notes and Rule Details (by Aaron)

1) None of the four special cards can be used in any type of Bomb.

2) In regard to the requirements of the Mah Jong card:

It is legal to name a card of which you know that all 4 have already been played - doing so will put no burden on any player.
Assume a "7" has been named as the player plays a row of 12345. If you have cards 5689 and the Phoenix (joker), you do NOT have to play on the trick. However, if you have 5678 and the Phoenix, you DO have to play on the trick by making the Phoenix a 4 or a 9, allowing you to play your "natural" 7. You would also have to play if you had 7777.
Since bombs can be played out of order, you can do some odd things. For example, let us say you have 2222 456789 and the player before you plays the Mah Jong alone and calls for a 7. Basically you must either play a single 7 (which would be bad as it would leave you with 5 fairly low single cards) or you can instead play a bomb of 2222. If this bomb wins the trick, you must then play a 7 but it is legal to play the 7 then as part of a combination so you would be able to play the row of 456789.
3) It is legal to play a Bomb on top of any play except the Dog. If played on the Dragon, the trick does not have to be given away.
4) The order of play given above is counterclockwise - each player is followed by the player on his right. Feel free to play it in the more common American clockwise fashion where each player is followed by the player on his left.

Hints

Try to get rid of your bad cards (low single cards and pairs) as quickly as possible and be economical with your "A's", "Dragons" and "Bombs".

Whoever, after a good power play, remains sitting on a single "4" has not yet grasped the garlic. That is, don't leave yourself with low cards and no way to ever get the lead.

If your partner is playing a Tichu, help him unreservedly. When you are the Mah Jong player, do not demand any card that could deprive him of a "Bomb" nor of a trick. Naming the card you passed to the player who plays after you is one way to make sure not to hurt your partner.

If an opponent declares a 'Tichu' then play against him, so that he finds it hard to get rid of his cards.

Version 2
Tichu Tientsin (for 6 players)

There are two teams of 3 players each.

The rules are the same as for the 4 player game with the following exceptions:

The 'large Tichu' must be declared before you take your seventh card (during the deal stage).

Each player only passes on 2 cards and only to his own 2 partners. He in turn receives a card from each of them.

The "Dog" gives the "lead" to the partner of your choice

When reckoning up:

the last player gives the remaining cards in his hand and all his tricks to the opposing team.

the player finishing fifth gives all the tricks he has won to the winner of the round.

there is now a triple victory where one team has lost all its cards and the 3 rivals still have cards in their hands. This is worth 300 points.

Version 3
Grandseigneur (for 5-12 players)

This was marketed by Hexagames as Karrierepoker.
Game Contents

32 Building Cards (4 each of Hotel, Saloon, Farm, General Store, Goldmine, Blacksmith, Sheriff's Office, and Bank)
1 Rules Overview Card
1 Instruction Sheet
Object of the Game

From the profits of their bean harvesting, the players can invest into their own Western town. The new buildings have special abilities and are used in scoring. The player who builds the most different types of buildings receives bonus points at the end of the game.

Game Preparation

Ownership of Uwe Rosenberg's Bohnanza from Amigo Games + Leisure Time is required to be able to play High Bohn. The buildings are sorted after kind and values and are put aside. Place the rules overview card where it is visible to all players. When played with five players, the game ends when the draw deck is exhausted for the fourth time.

Buying Buildings

There are eight different types of buildings that the players can use assemble their Western town. Each building type has a value of one to four - the higher the value, the better the quality of the building. Each building can only be built by earnings from a certain kind of bean. For example, the Hotel is built by gold coins earned from Black-eyed Beans. In contrast to, Bohnanza, it is therefore important to know from which type of bean harvests gold coins are acquired. The cost of a building is represented on the card, therefore the three-coin Saloon costs 3 gold coins that was earned by harvesting Green Beans. A player can build each building type only once!

The gold coins used to buy the buildings is put on the discard pile. The abilities of purchased buildings are immediately applicable!

Buildings

Each value occurs only once on each building type. For example, if a player has the three-coin Hotel, only the one-, two-, and four-coin Hotels remain for the other players to purchase.

Only two values of each building type are available with three players: as soon as two of the three players have built a Farm, for example, the other Farms are removed from the game. The third player may not purchase a Farm. With four players, three buildings per type are in the game, and with five or more players all four per type are in the game.

Order of Play

In principle, each player can buy buildings at anytime. If several players want to buy a building simultaneously, a sequence must be determined. The player whose turn it is always has the first option of buying a building, then the option moves around the table in the normal order of play.

Scoring

At the end of the game, each building scores its value. Additionally, bonus points are awarded to a player for building four or more different building types in his city: eight points for eight building types, five points for seven building types, three for six, two for five, and one point for four buildings. The final score at the end of the game therefore consists from three components: the cash, the value of the buildings, and the bonus points for having four, or more, different buildings.

The Western Town

The buildings and their residents help the players by influencing the game with their abilities. The one-coin buildings are the exception, they have no abilities. Nevertheless, they can be important because of the bonus points. The abilities modify the rules of Bohnanza for the player, who owns the corresponding building. Some special cases are explained in the following descriptions.

Farm

The three-coin Farm changes the Bohnometer for Garden Beans. The player owning the three-coin Farm may harvest individual Garden Beans and collect one gold coin for it. They can even harvest such a field if they have other fields with more beans.

Bank

At the end of the game, players receive interest when saving their gold coins in the Bank. Depending on which bank a player has, they get one extra gold coin per five, six, or eight coins stored in the Bank.

Hotel

The tricks can only be used directly before one's turn or when refilling your hand, as indicated by the card. Whoever misses the opportunity, is out of luck.

Goldmine

The ability of the four-coin Goldmine is combined with the abilities of other buildings, including the three-coin Saloon, four-coin Saloon, and the three-coin Sheriff's Office. For example, if a player applies the abilities right, he can receive five gold coins with a harvest of eight blue beans.

Saloon

The two-coin Saloon serves as additional bean field, on which however only Green Beans can be grown.

The three- and four-coin Saloons allows the players to grow Bean Stew on their normal bean fields. Each bean type must be unique in a bean stew collection, i.e. there can only be one of each kind of bean in those collections. No buildings can be bought with the gold coins that is earned by making Bean Stew! The gold coins are put aside until the end of the game, the best place is under the Saloon, and are counted at the end when calculating the player's total gold coins.

General Store

The General Store serves as storage for beans. Beans can be played there from the owner's hand in Phase 1. Beans that are turned over from the draw pile, and beans that a player gets through trades may also be placed here. Beans in the General Store can be used for trades with other players, they can never put on the owner's own bean fields.

Blacksmith

The two-coin Blacksmith works like the two-coin Saloon, but as an additional bean field for only Fire Beans.

Sheriff's Office

With the four-coin Sheriff's Office, the owner should be sure to collect the gold coin when other players harvest Blue Beans. This extra gold coin doesn't come from the gold coin(s) the harvesting player gets, but is one of the Blue Beans that would normally go on the discard pile.


If the Dragon wins the trick, the player playing it must give the entire trick away (including its own 25 points) to a player of the opposing team (he chooses which one). Despite this, the player who won the trick also wins the next lead.