Version 1
Tichu Nanjing (for four players)

The Cards

There are four suits (Jack, Sword, Pagoda, Star) of 13 cards each corresponding in value to Bridge cards ie. The highest card in each suit being the Ace and the lowest being the "2". The "10's" lie between the "9" and the "Jack".

There are four special cards : Mah Jong, Dog, Phoenix and Dragon (see illustration in German rules) - which brings the total number of cards to 56.

The players play in two teams each of two players. Each player sits opposite his partner and they work together in acquiring points.

Preparation

The winner of the previous round shuffles and cuts the deck.

Instead of dealing out the cards, each player in turn takes a card from the top of the deck until the pile is exhausted and each player has 14 cards in his hand. Editor's note: We just deal the cards normally by first dealing 8 cards to each player and later giving each player 6 more (the reason for the two phases of dealing is below).

Now give one of your cards to each of the other three players. In effect, then, you will pass on 3 cards of your choice and receive 3 unknown ones in return.

The Game

The game is started by the player who has the Mah Jong card. He may lay down any one of the following combinations:

Example

A single card - 4
A pair (two cards of the same value) - 8,8
A run of pairs of adjoining values - 9,9,10,10,J,J
A triple (three cards of the same value) - 2,2,2
A full house (triple and pair) - 5,5,5,9,9
A row (also known as a straight or run) of at least five cards (the Ace can be used in a run but only as a high card such as 10JQKA - A2345 is not a legal play) - 4,5,6,7,8
The next player (to the right of the previous player) now has the following options:

Passing or Playing a similar combination but of a higher value

So, a single card can only be beaten by the playing of a single card (and this must be of a higher value); a run of 2 pairs by a run of 2 higher pairs, a row of 6 cards only by a higher row of 6 cards (3,4,5,6,7,8 is beaten by, at a minimum a row of 4,5,6,7,8,9), a full house by a higher full house (in a full house, only the value of the triple is taken into consideration). The only exception to this rule is the "Bomb" - see later.

Play then proceeds to the next player on the right. If all four players pass consecutively, the player who laid the last (highest) card combination, takes the trick and starts play again - if he has no more cards in his hand, he retires from the game and play proceeds to his neighbour on the right (if he also has no cards, then play goes to the next person on the right etc.). It is legal for players to pass and then come back in again as long as some other player played in between.

The Special Cards
The "Mah Jong" Card

Whoever has this card in his hand makes the first lead (but in doing so does not actually have to play the Mah Jong card although me may do so if he wishes).

The Mah Jong card has a value of 1 and so is the lowest card in the game. It can be used to form a row eg. 1,2,3,4,5

Whoever plays the Mah Jong (alone or as part of a row) card must call for a card - that is he must name a specific card value (eg an "8" or an "A", but not a special card). The next player who has a card of the chosen value and can play it (in accordance with the rules of the game) must then play it (under certain circumstances it can also be used as a "Bomb".)

If a player does not have the card value asked for, or cannot play it, then he can play any suitable combination or pass.

This condition, imposed by the playing of the Mah Jong card, remains in force on all players for all plays until somebody carries it out. Once the card is played by any playr, the condition is no longer in effect on anybody.
The Phoenix

The Phoenix is a very powerful card. It has a value of -25 points in the final point scoring.

It can be used as a joker in any card combination (but it cannot be used to create a Bomb - see later). However, in its role as a joker it can not be used as any of the other special cards (it can only be a 2-Ace).

It can be played as a single card. It then has a value of a half point above the last card played (eg if the Phoenix is played after an "8", then the value of the Phoenix is 8.5 and can only be beaten by a single card of value "9" or higher. The Phoenix will beat an "A" but not the Dragon. If the Phoenix is played first it has a value of 1.5
The Dragon

The Dragon is the highest single card and counts 25 points.

It can only be played as a single card and it beats even an "A" (Ace) or an "A and a half" (A Phoenix played on an "A").

It can only be beaten by a "Bomb".

If the Dragon wins the trick, the player playing it must give the entire trick away (including its own 25 points) to a player of the opposing team (he chooses which one). Despite this, the player who won the trick also wins the next lead.
rgument	Description
*	This is an optional starting asterisk indicates that the data is to be read from the stream but ignored, i.e. it is not stored in the corresponding argument.
width	This specifies the maximum number of characters to be read in the current reading operation.
modifiers	Specifies a size different from int (in the case of d, i and n), unsigned int (in the case of o, u and x) or float (in the case of e, f and g) for the data pointed by the corresponding additional argument: h : short int (for d, i and n), or unsigned short int (for o, u and x) l : long int (for d, i and n), or unsigned long int (for o, u and x), or double (for e, f and g) L : long double (for e, f and g)
type	A character specifying the type of data to be read and how it is expected to be read. See next table.
fscanf type specifiers
type	Qualifying Input	Type of argument
c	Single character: Reads the next character. If a width different from 1 is specified, the function reads width characters and stores them in the successive locations of the array passed as argument. No null character is appended at the end.	char *
d	Decimal integer: Number optionally preceded with a + or - sign	int *
e, E, f, g, G	Floating point: Decimal number containing a decimal point, optionally preceded by a + or - sign and optionally followed by the e or E character and a decimal number. Two examples of valid entries are -732.103 and 7.12e4	float *
o	Octal Integer:	int *
s	String of characters. This will read subsequent characters until a whitespace is found (whitespace characters are considered to be blank, newline and tab).	char *